So RANSAC. RANSAC stands for Random Sample Consensus.
As we were seeing before,
there's different models that you can try to fit.
We were just trying to fit a plane model.
Here, we're going to look at this case of trying to fit a line.
So here is the situation,
we have this data and we know that there's a line in it.
It's quite clear that there's a line right here.
But the data also has a ton of outliers.
So how do you figure out where that line is at?
Well, if you're just trying to do something like linear regression,
that would take the average of all the points and
also take the average of the outliers which doesn't make sense.
That's going to give you this very bad line that's
not representative of this actual line that you have.
So RANSAC is actually a method for finding
this model when you have these outliers included in your data.
How RANSAC works is,
so we have this Random Sample Consensus,
what it's doing here is it's randomly choosing a subset of our data.
So these red points are randomly chosen and then it gets aligned to just that subset.
Then so it's fitting that line,
it's looking through all the points,
and seeing how close those points are to the line.
So that was that distance tolerance that we were looking at previously.
If that distance is small enough,
then it's actually included,
it becomes an inlier.
Then so we're doing this iteratively and we are counting how many inliers we
have in the line from the iteration that
has the highest number inlier becomes our best model.
So here we're going through and then when
that green line is all sudden coming right through here,
it's picking up a ton of inliers,
and it's going to be the best model in our case here.
So RANSAC is an iterative method.
So in each iteration,
it randomly picks a subset of points.
It fits a model to that,
a randomly subset of points,
and then the iteration with the most inliers to that model is the best one.